I have lived in quite a few apartments over the years. There are basically three styles: garden apartments, townhouses, and high-rise buildings. I have lived in all three of these, and each of them has advantages and disadvantages.


Moving in and out:

Ground-floor garden apartments are by far the easiest for moving heavy furniture in and out. Townhouses are only a little more difficult. Upper-floor garden apartments require carrying the furniture up and down stairs. High-rise apartments require you to use the elevators for moving furniture, and large sofas might not even fit into the elevators.


Bicycling:

If you live in an upper-floor garden apartment, you will need to carry the bike up and down stairs.


Mail and garbage:

Don't forget to find out where you will pick up your mail and take out the garbage. In a high-rise, the mailboxes are generally in the same building, which is very convenient. Many high-rises have garbage chutes as well. In a townhouse or a garden apartment, you may need to walk a great distance to pick up the mail or take out the trash.


Laundry:

A few apartments have washing machines and dryers in every unit. Others have a laundry room on premises. If the apartment complex offers neither, you will need to go to an external laundromat, which is a hassle. The advantage of high-rise buildings is that the laundry room is generally in the same building, which is very convenient.


Noise:

This is one of the most overlooked considerations. If you live in a garden apartment, you are likely to hear the people above you, which can be a serious annoyance unless you are on the top floor. This is far less of a problem in high-rise buildings. The reason for this is that garden apartment buildings are generally built using wooden-frame construction, while high-rise buildings are usually built with steel and concrete. Townhouses generally have few noise issues.


Social:

High rise-buildings afford the greatest opportunity to meet your neighbors. You can interact with them regularly in the hallways, the elevators, and the lobby. Townhouse and garden-style apartments have few places for social interaction. A swimming pool helps.

